This document is the design document for our game. Here we will write down all our ideas that we have for the game.

Concept:
The game will be a 3D shooter where a player has to progress through a facility clearing out "anomalies" as they go. 
there will be 10 "layers" the player will have to play through, each layer containing 5 "sublayers", the 5th sublayer to each layer containing a mini boss or a milestone event.
after each individual layer there will be different items or weapons the player can choose to take, making them stronger or weaker for whatever playstyle they want.
The final boss will be located on the 5th sublayer of the 10th layer.

Genre: 
Action rougelike

mechanics:
players will have to find weapons through the levels to use them for that current run, once first discovered their "blueprint" is unlocked. A blueprints challenges must be completed to be able to start a run with that weapon

visual style: 
Reto horror(??)

What is the main mechanic?
shooter stat buff(?)

Story and Plot:
PC is a freelance mercenary hired by "company name here" to clean out the facility after a security breach.
Final boss is the monster who started the breach
monsters called anomalies

Characters:
mercenary(?) cyborg/AI(?), respawns in his house/bed after each level, effectivley making the game an endless cycle.
because the first characters are cyborg/AI, they are constantly learning and evolving, this is how they get stat buffs after each level

Environments:
there will be 10 stages in total, each stage has 5 substages.
each stage will have the same appearance, gameplay difficulty will increase with stage.
the layout of each sublayer will be randomly selected a list of created levels
Stages:
        facility:
                1-1, 1-2, 1-3, 1-4, 1-5
        high-security:
                2-1, 2-2, 2-3, 2-4, 2-5
        the-underground:
                3-1, 3-2, 3-3, 3-4, 3-5

Progression:
the player will be rewarded with perminant percs/buffs after playing long runs, this might be new cosmetics/weapons/new characters

finalboss:
to be determined





